# 2.1 - Systems

Systems are the integral focus of Reign, they are used to do most things in Reign games.

There is two core classes to Systems:

```
    public abstract class SystemBase : ReignMonoBehaviour { }

    public abstract class System<T> : SystemBase where T : System<T> { }
```

The generic `System<T>` class is a singleton which means that it can only have one global instance, and can be persistent, it is a direct copy of the `Singleton<T>` class with the major difference being that it inherits `SystemBase`.

The reason that the `System<T>` class is seperated from the `Singleton<T>` class because there are architectural issues with using just `Singleton<T>`, notibly within `Reign.cs`.

--- 

### Systems

> Systems should never, under any circumstance, use or rely on eachother to perform tasks.

_This information will move as documentation expands._


#### Audio System
Allows an *AudioPool* to contain *AudioGroups* containing *AudioPoolEntries* which have affiliated settings for each entry (e.g. doppler level, spatial blend, volume and pitch).

<br>

#### Input System
Allows for inputs to be detected using *GetButton()*, or *GetValue()*. Inputs from an input action map are cached at awake based upon the 'ActiveActionMapIndex' which decides which actions to cache to a *Dictionary<string, InputAction>*.

<br>

#### Save System
Controls saving and loading between scripts inheriting the *IDataHandler* interface. The *SaveFileHandler* saves and loads asynchronously to avoid stutters. When it finishes awaiting the load, every handler calls *LoadData(ref GameData data).* When the save system is told to save, either by force or calling the function, every handler saves the data before it awaits the *SaveFileHandler*'s *SaveAsync(GameData data)*.

<br>

#### Discord System
Searches for an instance of Discord running on your computer, if one is found it updates the current RPC. The RPC can be updated using *SetData(DiscordSystemData data)* which is also called once on *Start()* to set it to the default RPC settings that can be altered in the GameCertificates scriptable object.

<br>

#### Scene Load System
As the name implies, the scene load system controls a screen fade transition followed by an asynchronous scene load with *SceneManager.LoadSceneAsync*. 

<br>

#### Display System
Loads data for the Unity *Screen* to change resolution, changes if the global post processing is enabled and *QualitySettings.vSyncCount* by inheriting *IDataHandler*.

<br>

#### Pool System
Allows for object pooling using *Spawn<T>(GameObject prefab)* and spawning a prefab with a script attached which inherits MonoBehaviour and IPoolable, and *PoolSystem.Instance.Reclaim(T obj)* with the same script which disables the game object.

Every type has a designated queue where the newest is enqueued when reclaimed. Spawning a prefab with the same type already in the queue dequeues and enables the game object.